It's just the movement of the endoderm.
We see it in its entirety, as we saw in the short film,
but also transversally from a sac to a tube, ultimately.
Why? Because not only does the amniotic cavity make this movement,
but laterally it also makes this movement.
So it completely envelops the embryo,
so you gradually understand the integration of this digestive tube from the outside inwards,
organized by the amniotic cavity but mainly oriented by the primitive aortic brake.
You see, if we focus only on the vascular plane, this drawing must be much
larger, and that one even much larger, and that one even larger, and that one even
primitive endocardium
come together at the same time
as my neural tube closes
and the meeting between the two
here will create a space
in the lumen
of my endoderm
vitelline
primitive to form
what we call the part
of the pharyngeal intestine
and it happens on the line
median, the meeting
of these two will create
what is called the pharyngeal intestine, and laterally, the coelom will appear.
So it is the differential growth of epithelial tissue relative to connective tissue
that brings my two aortas closer together on the central axis
which will define the longitudinal axis and create the pharyngeal intestine.
Here, we have already studied a first image which was the internal image,
with the formation of the vital system.
one to form what is called the pharyngeal intestine, the upper intestine, upper part,
the intestine here, the mouth up to the median part. We saw how it was done. It will
involve the face. Now, we will study from the periphery to the center. So, at the beginning,
when we look at an embryo, I am well before flexion, so
I am around the 15th day,
end of the second week.
let's say, I can divide the embryo into three parts,
upper third, middle third, lower third.
And I notice that at this stage, the head of the future embryo is enormous
compared to a small trunk.
The part here already corresponds to the cephalic part,
and this one to the trunk part.
And after that, it will lengthen very strongly here.
This means that half of the embryo will initially be found
on my skull base, on the plane of the symphysis.
with the notochordal field, relative to the primitive streak.
Primitive streak, notochordal axis.
What causes flexion? It's the vascular system.
The fold.
Now, let's take a simple diagram, I take a tube.
This tube will bend.
I have one area that densifies and one area that stretches.
So, it will do this.
If I take another shape, it will look like this.
It will form folds by densification.
And I'm going to make a cut of the embryo like this.
Inside here.
Here, I have endodermal tissue, outside ectodermal tissue,
and between the two here, I have what is called mesodermal tissue,
future cartilage, if you will.
It's the same cut that's here, I'll add it here, a cut of the embryo,
and I see here, more precisely, different branchial arches that contain specific information.
but organized in space in relation to the totality of the embryo.
And what information is found?
It is that each branchial arch is organized on an almost facial plane,
always towards the same level, and towards which?
Towards what is called the base of the skull.
It's like rings, people who do the hula hoop.
I take the ring and I take a ring here.
You imagine, I have rings of Urmerian and
below, I have four rings that will form the mandibular arches.
And the force of these arches, all of them, is oriented towards what?
towards my skull base. So both my skull, my
neurocranium, on a mesodermal plane of organization by what are called the dural sheaths, and on another plane by the facial sheaths,
all orient towards the base of the skull. In other words, I can only treat a skull base by its periphery,
The branchial mandibular arch, the dural sheath, actually come together towards the base of the skull.
And that's where I need to find integrity, whether I'm deviated or whatever, you see.
And so to treat a face, to treat a skull, is to restore it to this primitive function,
like an energetic field, like that, like a current.
that organize towards that space.
Both here
and hyoid
and laryngeal
superior or inferior.
Both
in the anterior dural sheath
and posterior.
But each field
contains information
specific. We can say
that we symbolically have
four large branchial arches.
There are a few more, but we see a
There are four truly functional ones: the mandibular arch, the
hyoid arch, the
superior laryngeal arch and the inferior laryngeal arch,
and there is another one that will disappear.
Each arch, both on an ectodermal plane and on a mesodermal plane
or on an endodermal plane, has information.
The mandibular arch contains information with the mandibular cartilage,
but we see that from this same arch will appear
structures of the inner ear.
This means that a destabilization of the jaw will automatically affect
the information of the internal organization of the ear,
among others, essentially the malleus.
and the incus, while the stapes will be part of the styloid cartilage,
which contains
the styloid process, up to the superior part of the thyroid cartilage.
When I take the arch here, I actually have a tonality
of structure in hand.
I have both the mandible, I have both the inner ear,
malleus, incus,
I have both the system towards my skull base and
in fact I have to bring them into the embryonic fulcrum, which is my skull base, it's here, so
it contains not only information
cartilaginous, muscular, vascular, neurological, I find myself with a
table where, for example, the branch of the pharyngeal arch on the arterial plane
I will have the terminal branch of the maxillary artery,
and I will find myself with cartilage derivatives that come from the neural crest,
because we will add the neural crest to this story,
and I will see the maxillary cartilage like the lysphenoid, the incus,
the mandibular cartilage, the malleus,
all the derivatives of the ossification of the dermal mesenchyme of the arch,
like the maxilla, the zygomatic, the squamous portion,
and the temporal bone and the mandible,
from the same arch
with the same muscle
so I have creative forces
it's just a simple movement
between the ectoderm
the mesoderm and the endoderm
but all organized on its
embryonic fulcrum
when I take a fulcrum
at this level
I simply restore these points of function
its fulcrum, its fulcrum
the tissue knows what it needs to do.
If someone comes and gets a good shot in the face, they are deviated.
Or if there's an accident, or if there's dental trauma, or if there's craniosacral dysfunction,
it can disrupt the whole system. This is neural crest. It's an invasion
primitive in this flexion phase of the embryo. I have the neural tube closing and
I have these lips of the neural tube that are here, you see, on the side. And from there, there will be
At that level, what is called the rhombomere, which will divide into different zones.
So the rhombomere will give 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7.
A migration phase like this.
To be done here, this is the impulse of my neural crest.
At the moment I have this flexion phase, everything organizes towards my sphenobasilar symphysis.
It's this whole phase, you see.
of integration like this, of this proliferation.
This is called the neural crest stream.
And that means that the quality of the tissue that is here, up to there, with the platysma,
is not the same as here or there.
However, you find this same neural quality in your digestive tract.
The dermis, the muscles, the bone, all of that, is from the neural crest.
But it happens synchronously with the flexion movement and the orientation.
The neural crest does this, you see, we see, and all the lines of force do this towards my skull base.
The neural crest starts from the posterior part here, and here in this flexion movement,
it's not that it does this, it's that it's already built like this, you see, around the system.
You have to imagine that this embryo is growing.
not only in flexion movement, but also lengthens.
And in this lengthening process, I have the whole process of cerebralization,
the formation of my prosencephalon system and the process of telencephalization.
And with the process of intracranial-ventricular elimination
which will follow this movement on the plane of the development of my telencephalon,
but also outside of Urmerian.
my dural sheaths, it will form my ventricles and it will organize the whole of my embryo.
This developmental movement occurs in a biodynamic process.
We see here an embryo at the third week that has just begun its flexion
and we see here that the embryo is already open.
This is the brain in formation and here we see the closure of
what is called the anterior neuropore.
We see the mandibular arch here.
the pharyngeal membrane, and we see the cardiac zone.
Then, it progresses, we already see that the cerebralization process really comes forward,
and we already see an organization, always the cardiac zone,
and we already see the mouth, future mouth, which will develop here.
And in fact, we can say that the face, the face, is the expression of the heart's placement.
The heart develops between the mental, the neural tube,
and the liver or the diaphragm.
It is a compression between the heart and the brain that will create the face.
That's why we will find a child's face,
or an adult's, with a typology of mental, cerebral, cardiac or hepatic type.
My face must be a balance between my brain, my heart,
and my liver. We still find
two types, typology
ectodermal, mesodermal or endodermal
where we find what is called
the vita, the pata and the calpa
in Ayurvedic medicine, for example.
Now we're going to go from the periphery
inwards. So what do
I see here? At some point
I have the rupture of the disintegration
of the buccopharyngeal membrane.
In front, the first hymen
here, which will rupture.
This first mandibular arch
is an arch that contains the maxilla and the mandible. Initially, they will function in
a unit. All of this is a mandibular arch, then it will organize
through my mouth, in fact,
which will give the information. So it is my digestive system and the organization
of the anterior compression of my pharyngeal membrane that makes my mouth develop
in a horizontal direction.
horizontal. It's like this because it's the meeting.
between my heart and my brain that creates this space and the compression will
disintegrate my mesodermal tissue which contains vascular information if
it is compressed, then I no longer have vascular information and I have
lines that will be broken, this is what is called a corrosion field on a metabolic plane.
So at the very moment here I see what is called a
nasal pit, a nasal pit here, and the oral cavity. Now,
if I show you these
images, you might say, "Oh, it's hollowed out." In fact, no, it's not hollowed out, it becomes
a fulcrum here in relation to the system because I have a frenum and this frenum comes from a system
here of a relationship with my nasal placode which is a just acrine relationship with information
precise metabolic with what is called the olfactory placode.
It is the meeting between the deep ectoderm
and the surface ectoderm, which creates an attachment point, but the system continues.
And it is from there that I will have this coiling here, and that is how I have the part
of the nose or the upper part that develops, with this fixed point here.
So my ethmoid becomes, in relation to my system, another fulcrum for
my flexion.
in relation to my olfactory placode. This is a view from below, the palate is still
open, with the cleft
palate. Initially, this line was open. This is a view as you just saw, but at
an early stage, before the closure of this palate. Now here, it's just a schematic cut of my
sphenobasilar symphysis. And more specifically, it's a cut where I will integrate
into this diagram
the development of the brain.
in relation to the process of telencephalization,
what is called the process of brain ascension,
in relation to the process of visceral descent.
This means that my face, initially, is a compression field between my heart and my brain,
and then through the global growth of my embryo, it will open up.
And so I have not only a movement that will occur longitudinally,
like this, but also like...
this diagram here represents my sphenoid with
the part here in front that we call the two
pterygoids, initially the pterygoids are almost horizontal and you imagine now
here this is the part here that we call the crista galli that is here we will study this with
the process first of my brain you remember it was like this and then I have the
closure of the two spheres of the prosencephalon which will form the telencephalon, it will
form what is called the falx cerebri, and the falx
cerebri, by growth, pulls upwards.
So my processes
pterygoid processes that are lateral, here,
I have something pulling downwards,
and I have something pulling upwards. So the face
initially, it's a compression,
now, a second force
that you have to imagine, it's a lengthening
global of my embryo longitudinally.
And in addition,
a traction backwards that will form my falx cerebri. So
you imagine my little
pterygoids that are there, it does this, and by the traction of the falx cerebri and the movement
of telencephalization, it does this. And
we see here that it will orient the
of my palatine process like this
which will form the palate
which will meet on the median line here
you see, like this
not only will it do this
you see
to form the axis that is here
we find it here
with the ascending force of my brain
and then I have this enormous traction backwards
in this movement
and I have this visceral descent downwards
supported by the heart
but at the same moment here
I have here the tissue in this movement
which will make folds
tissues like this
and what will it form?
It will form the system of the ribs
you understand all my choana system will form like that so it's both a
synchronicity of development between my digestive system and my heart that pulls downwards
my cerebral system that pulls upwards the median approximation
of my palates and
why do I have a rather ogival palate? Because at the moment I have the traction,
I see that my tube here, it does this.
It is pulled upwards. And we see that this is why you have an ogival palate.
Initially, it was rather flat, and by the movement of the ascensus of your brain and
the visceral traction, it orients itself.
It orients itself, and if you look at the palate now, you see something
ogival, an ogive like that, with a line on the median line.
The depth of the tongue, a long tongue, is
related to a large cephalization.
And we see here the approximation of my median line,
here, which occurs in the long axis.
of the embryo which is the result of this developmental dynamic, it
comes closer and we see
well here the cleft palate for example you see why it continues like this a complete cleft
lip which is a cleft palate that is not closed on an osteopathic level people
they have to be operated on it's very difficult to close inside but what do we do
it's a genetic process on we restore the longitudinal axis of
the embryo, we rebalance the brain,
we rebalance the peritoneum,
we rebalance the mediastinum.
At the same time,
the whole face is forming,
here, I have the whole interior,
and we see here the cones forming.
Now, look,
this is the whole integration
of this movement,
that we just saw, in the form of a small film,
we will see the face,
where not only do you have the information, remember, from Mac Redner,
the longitudinal development of the embryo, the development of the internal part, the arches
branchial, everything is done in this small drawing and you will find me where the fulcrum is
the meeting point of the force, the fulcrum of the face, we will see here and we will
see this force, you see, which comes here with a fulcrum that is here, which we
call the Crista Galli, the cross of Galen, where
John the Baptist brings the Christic consciousness, that is to say, the light, to find your spiritual path
in the Judeo-Christian zone.
Judeo-Christian.
But it's an important concentration of energy that is here.
The importance of realizing that a large part of this whole
area here is of ectodermal origin.
with the lines of force that will be found.
But if we go even further, to fully understand the process of ascensus and descensus.
If we go even further, to understand that this is a neural tube that grows,
and this is a heart that descends.
So it's a tearing between the heart that descends and the brain that ascends.
We can clearly see here the approximation of my brain on this crista galli that comes from the water.
here, and the approximation in the median line of my palatine process, the line of force
that pulls upwards, the line of force that pulls downwards, the placodes, the nose and
the mouth that is drawn in these spaces.
The importance of my neural crest, we saw that it develops at the time of my neural tube
in formation, which will form what is called the mesectoderm, the entire skeleton
of the face, the teeth, the eye, the cranial skeleton, the dermis of the face and neck.
The ciliary muscles and the cornea come from this information.
This means that the face, the teeth, derive from the neural crests.
This means that treating the face or teeth implies rebalancing them with the original rhombomere.
The mandibular arch, here, which is very important, has an origin both from
what is called the posterior mesencephalon and rhombencephalon 1.
And two, you see, it has a lot of information here at
the posterior part to rebalance.
Each time I have a curvature that will occur, I will have a field of
constraints that will form with fields, you see, that will modify here, with polarities
that will change, with specific resorptions.
This means that axial stresses causing the curvature of a bone determine the appearance of electrical charges.
positive on the convex side
and vice versa.
And calcium ions, attracted by
negative charges, accumulate in
the concavity.
And it's the opposite on the convex side.
So you see the lines of force
that organize.
Look at the presence here of these lines of force,
the concentrations that will
occur in this area.
Each tooth receives
information, you see,
with all the integration. So the occlusal forces,
the pressures of the lingual mass and the resulting piezoelectric effects determine the formation of these trabeculae.
So when I take a face, I must be aware of these electrical lines,
not only on a specific plane here, you see.
When I take, I touch consciously and I can go deep.
We still see all the lines of force that will be found just in the palate.
viscera to skull, membranous origin, cartilaginous origin.
Two different types of condensation.
Two types, one in compression, one in stretching.
We have a membranous part and a cartilaginous part.
What is important is to understand the orientation and the fulcrums.
And to superimpose all these diagrams.
And what interests me is that you...
have the idea of a movement, because it is a combination
of both a cephalization, a cardialization
and a hepatization, and a specific orientation
in relation to this development, with specific points and fulcrums.